
Exercise 6 - Retirement Calculator
Your computer knows what the current year is, which means you can incorporate that into your programs. You just have to figure out how your programming language can provide you with that information.

Create a program that determines how many years you have left until retirement and the year you can retire. It should prompt for your current age and the age you want to retire and display the output as shown in the example that follows.

    Example Output
        What is your current age? 25
        At what age would you like to retire? 65
        You have 40 years left until you can retire.
        It's 2015, so you can retire in 2055.
    Constraints
        Again, be sure to convert the input to numerical data before doing any math.
        Don’t hard-code the current year into your program. Get it from the system time via your programming language.
    Challenge
        Handle situations where the program returns a negative number by stating that the user can already retire.

    Pseudocode/Planning for exercise 06:
        prompt(input) for age to be stored in an int (output)
        convert input to int
        prompt(input) for retirement age to be stored in an int (output)
        convert input to int
        calculate difference (retirementAge - age)
        print difference (output)


    methods for exercise 06:

     prompt building method
     user input request method
     delta calculator method


Exercise 7 - Area of a Rectangular Room
When working in a global environment, you’ll have to present information in both metric and Imperial units. And you’ll need to know when to do the conversion to ensure the most accurate results.

Create a program that calculates the area of a room. Prompt the user for the length and width of the room in feet. Then display the area in both square feet and square meters.

Example Output:
What is the length of the room in feet? 15
What is the width of the room in feet? 20
You entered dimensions of 15 feet by 20 feet.
The area is
300 square feet
27.871 square meters
The formula for this conversion is m2 = f2 × 0.09290304

Constraints
Keep the calculations separate from the output.
Use a constant to hold the conversion factor.
Challenges
Revise the program to ensure that inputs are entered as numeric values. Don’t allow the user to proceed if the value entered is not numeric.
Create a new version of the program that allows you to choose feet or meters for your inputs.
Implement this program as a GUI program that automatically updates the values when any value changes.





    Pseudocode for exercise 07:

    prompt for length to be stored as a double
    prompt for width to be stored as a double

    print dimensions

    calculate area as a double by length * width

    convert dimensions to meters
    calculate area as a double by length * width

    output both areas


    Methods:
    prompt generator
    user input grabber
    area calculator
    unit converter

